# masters_thesis
This is the code from my master's thesis analysis, "The World is my Toaster: Values and Pro-Environmental Behaviour". This thesis was submitted in August 2022 for the completion of the social data analytics programme at University College Dublin. 

**Abstract** \n
In the growing research in sociology on climate change, through the Value-Belief-Norm theory there is acceptance that individual human values play a significant role in an individual’s pro-environmental actions, beliefs and attitudes. In addition to values, demographics and political ideology have also been indicated as potential predictors of an individual's reaction to climate change from perceptions, worry and action. Using the European Social Survey Round 8 (𝑛 = 38, 872), I examine the role of human values and demographics on the frequency in which individuals take action to reduce their energy consumption and the felt responsibility that individuals report towards reducing the impact of climate change. County-level fixed effects linear regression is used to examine the role of values and demographics. There is some evidence of minor country-level effects for the level of responsibility felt by individuals and there is no evidence of country-level effects for the frequency of action. The self-transcendent higher-order value cluster was found to be statistically and comparatively numerically significant for both the level of responsibility felt and the frequency of action. The demographic factors of age, gender and education level were also proven to be statistically significant while being numerically insignificant. The adjusted R-squared value for both models is very small, indicating that the values and demographics, while statistically significant, are not significant predictors of frequency of action and level of responsibility. As such, it can be concluded that values, in particular self-transcendent values, and demographic factors of age, education level and gender are statistically significant to the frequency of action to reduce individual energy use and level of responsibility felt to reduce climate change regardless of individual country-level effects. However, given the low numerical significance of the β coefficients, there is evidence that there may be other variables that influence frequency of action and level of responsibility more than values and demographics.
